and there was a great outcry of the
people and their wives against their
Jewish brethren we our sons and our
daughters are many therefore let us get
grain that we may eat and live
we have mortgaged our lands and
vineyards and houses that we might buy
grain because of the famine we have
borrowed money for the king's tax on our
lands and vineyards yet now our flesh is
as the flesh of our brethren our
children as their children and indeed we
are forcing our sons and daughters to be
slaves and some of our daughters have
been brought into slavery it is not in
our power to redeem them for other men
have our lands and vineyards and I
became very angry when I heard their
outcry and these words after serious
thought i rebuked the nobles and brewers
and said to them each of you is exacting
usury from his brother so I called a
great assembly against them and I said
to them according to our ability we have
redeemed our jurist brethren who were
sold to the nation's now indeed will you
even sell your brethren or should they
be sold to us then they were silenced
and found nothing to say then I said
what you are doing is not good
should you not walk in the fear of our
God because of the reproach of the
nation's our enemies
I also with my brethren and my servants
and lending them money and grain please
let us stop this usury restore now to
them even this day their lands their
vineyards their olive groves and their
houses also a hundredth of the money and
the grain the new wine and the oil that
you have charged them
so they said we will restore it and
we'll require nothing from them we will
do as you say then I called the priests
and required an oath from them that they
would do according to this promise then
I shook out the fold of my garment and
said
so may God shake out each man from his
house and from his property who does not
perform this promise even thus may he be
shaken out and emptied
and all the assembly said and praise the
Lord
then the people did according to this
promise moreover from the time that I
was appointed to be their governor in
the land of Judah from the 20th year
until the 32nd year of King Artaxerxes
twelve years neither I nor my brothers
ate the governor's provisions but the
former governors were before me laid
burdens on the people and took from them
bread and wine besides forty shekels of
silver yes even their servants bore rule
over the people but I did not do so
because of the fear of God indeed I also
continued the work on this wall and we
did not buy any land all my servants
were gathered there for the work and at
my table were 150 Jews and rulers
besides those who came to us from the
nations around us now that which was
prepared daily was one ox and six choice
sheep also fowl were prepared for me
and once every 10 days an abundance of
all kinds of wine yet in spite of this I
did not demand the governor's provisions
because the bondage was heavy on these
people remember me my God for good
according to all that I have done for
this people
you